# NOTICE OF FUNDING OPPORTUNITY:  FFY16 Violence Against Women Act Multidisciplinary Team Response Program

## INTRODUCTION

The Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority is soliciting proposals from county criminal justice and victim service agencies interested in maintaining or expanding multidisciplinary programs incorporating prosecution, county and/or local law enforcement, probation, and victim service agency partnerships. Grants will be made with Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) funds. A total of $3,250,000 in funding is available through this solicitation.

## PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS

Programs must provide a meaningful response to the needs of sexual assault or domestic violence victim populations through coordinated responses from community law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, courts/probation, victim services agencies, and other state agencies and departments. The applicant must demonstrate that it has the expertise in providing relevant and accessible community-based outreach and intervention services or has the capacity to link to existing services in the community tailored to the needs of the population. Applicants must also have implemented or plan to work toward fully implementing best practices.

A maximum of $650,000 from Federal Fiscal Years 2017, 2016, 2015 and 2014 funds shall be made available to local agencies for multi-disciplinary programs that meet the following criteria:

* One Stop Services – Co-location of victim service advocates and law enforcement, either at a central location such as a family justice center or at the county justice center. If co-location does not currently exist, applicant must demonstrate how they are working toward implementation.
* Specialized Training – The Applicant must develop and execute a plan for the cross-training of law enforcement, first responders, and community-based advocacy, which includes the identification of each discipline’s roles and procedures related to domestic violence and/or sexual assault.
* Program Assessment – All VAWA funded programs must demonstrate progress toward meeting project goals and objectives annually, and describe and justify any planned program modifications to continuously improve
* Implementation Plan - Provide a step by step plan of how the program or project will be implemented. Include the personnel title of the person, who will be responsible for the associated work for the program or project, resources to be used and anticipated results.
* Time table - Insert these steps into a timetable demonstrative of the entire performance period to be funded by this grant. Start and end dates of the major milestone in the program or project must be included


## VIEW THE NOTICE OF FUNDING OPPORTUNITY

[Download the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): Multidisciplinary Team Response Program Application](2018.VAWAMDT.NOFO.PDF)

## ELIGIBILITY INFORMATION

Agencies must be pre-qualified through the Grant Accountability and Transparency Act (GATA) Grantee Portal, www.grants.illinois.gov, to become eligible to apply for an award. Applicants must have completed the GATA pre-qualification process and received approval of their Internal Control Questionnaire (ICQ) by the date of application to be considered for funding. Applications from agencies that have not received ICQ approval will not be reviewed.

**Eligible Applicants:** Only not-for-profit organizations and units of government may apply. Proposals for multidisciplinary coordinated programs shall list all partner agencies, but funding is limited to prosecution, law enforcement, courts/probation, and victim services agencies.

## DEADLINE

Completed application materials must be emailed to CJA.2018vawaNOFO@Illinois.gov by **11:59 p.m., August 30, 2018**, to be considered for funding. Proposals will not be accepted by mail, fax, or in-person. Incomplete applications will not be reviewed. Late submissions will not be reviewed.

## AVAILABLE FUNDS
Applicants may request a maximum of $650,000 to be spent over a 12-month period. A 25-percent cash or in-kind match requirement will be imposed on grant funds under this program. Match funds must be spent in support of the program’s goals and objectives.


## CONTACT INFORMATION:
Shataun Hailey

Program Administrator 

Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority 

300 West Adams, Suite 200 

Chicago, IL 60606 

Shataun.Hailey@illinois.gov

312-814-8100

## TIMELINE

**Task** | **Date**
---- | :----: |
NOFO posted | Tuesday, August 21, 2018
NOFO question submission deadline | Monday, September 10, 2018
**Applications due** | **11:59 p.m., Friday, September 21, 2018**
Budget Committee review/approval of recommended designations | Thursday, October 18, 2018
Program start date | Tuesday, January 1, 2019

## REPORTING
Recipients must submit quarterly financial reports, quarterly progress reports, final financial and progress reports, and, if applicable, an annual audit report in accordance with the CFR Part 200 Uniform Requirements. Future awards and fund drawdowns may be withheld if reports are delinquent.

In addition, funded programs will be required to report performance measures through the U.S. Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Assistance portal at https://bjapmt.ojp.gov.

## REQUIRED DOCUMENTS

The following documents must be emailed to CJA.2018vawaNOFO@Illinois.gov by the **11:59 p.m., Friday, September 21, 2018**, deadline for application review. Click the links below to download copies.

* [Application Checklist (PDF).](2018.VAWAMDT.ApplicationChecklist.PDF)
* [Completed and signed Uniform State Grant Application (Word).](2018.VAWAMDT.APPLICATION.doc)
* [Completed Program Narrative (Word).](2018.VAWAMDT.NARRATIVE.doc)
* [Completed Budget/Budget Narrative (Excel).](2018.VAWAMDT.BUDGET.xlsx)

[DOWNLOAD ZIP FILE OF ALL REQUIRED APPLICATION DOCUMENTS](2018.VAWAMDT.alldocs.zip)

## QUESTIONS 

Questions regarding this NOFO may be submitted to CJA.2018vawaNOFO@Illinois.gov by September 10, 2018.

All substantive questions and responses will be posted. Updates to NOFO materials, and questions from applicants and their responses are revised weekly. [View them here.](http://www.icjia.state.il.us/) 

Due to the competitive nature of this solicitation, applicants may not discuss this opportunity directly or indirectly with any Authority employee other than the respondent of this email address. Only written answers to questions shall be binding on the state.

